welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
sophie's choice
[Music]
in 1947 stinko moves to brooklyn to
write a novel
and is befriended by sophie zavastovsky
a polish immigrant
and her emotionally unstable lover
nathan landau
nathan is constantly jealous and when he
is in one of his violent mood swings
he convinces himself that sophie is
unfaithful to him
and he abuses and harasses her a
flashback shows how nathan first met
sophie after her immigration to the u.s
when she nearly died due to anemia
sophie tells stingo that before she came
to the u.s
her husband and father were killed in a
german work camp
and that she was interned in the
auschwitz concentration camp
stingo later learns from a college
professor that sophie's father was a
nazi sympathizer
when stingo confronts sophie with this
she admits the truth and tells him about
her wartime lover
yusef who lived with his half-sister
wanda
and was a leader in the resistance
wanda tried to convince sophie to
translate some stolen gestapo documents
but sophie declined fearing she might
endanger her children
two weeks later yusuf was murdered by
the gestapo
and sophie was arrested and sent to
auschwitz with her children
nathan tells sophie and stingo that he
is doing groundbreaking research at a
pharmaceutical company
but nathan's physician brother tells
stingo that nathan is a paranoid
schizophrenic
and that all of the schools that nathan
attended were expensive funny farms
nathan is not a biologist as he claims
he does have a job at a pharmaceutical
firm but it is in the library
which his brother obtained for him and
he only occasionally assists with
research
after nathan believes sophie has
betrayed him again
he calls sophie and stingo on the
telephone and fires a gun in a violent
rage sophie and stingo flee to a hotel
she reveals to him that upon arrival at
auschwitz
she was forced to choose which one of
her two children would be gassed and
which would proceed to the labor camp
to avoid having both children killed she
chose her son
jan to be sent to the children's camp
and her daughter
eva to be sent to her death
sophie and stingo have sex but while
stingo is sleeping
sophie returns to nathan sophie and
nathan commit suicide by taking cyanide
stingo recites the poem ample make this
bed
by emily dickinson the american poet
that sophie was fond of reading
stingo moves to a small farm that his
father recently inherited in southern
virginia to finish writing his novel
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe and hit the bell
notification for more of these videos
you